# Dynamic YOLO for Small Underwater Object Detection

Underwater object detection is one of the most essential methods for marine exploration. However, small objects in underwater environments pose a crucial challenge that degrades detection performance dramatically. In this paper, a dynamic YOLO detector is presented as a solution to alleviate this problem. First, a light-weight backbone network is built based on deformable convolution v3 with some specialized designs for small object detection. Second, a unified feature fusion framework based on channel-, scale-, and spatial-aware attention is proposed to fuse feature maps from different scales. It can fully utilize the increased capability of the proposed backbone. Lastly, a simple but effective detection head is designed to deal with the conflict between classification and localization by disentangling and aligning the two tasks. With the alignment, our dynamic YOLO obtains the ability for robust localization. Extensive experiments are conducted on benchmark datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model. Without bells and whistles, dynamic YOLO outperforms the recent state-of-the-art methods by a large margin of $+1.2 \ mAP$, and $+1.8 \ AP_{S}$ on \textit{DUO} dataset. Experimental results on \textit{Pascal VOC} and \textit{MS COCO} detasets also demonstrate the superiority of the proposed method. At last, ablation studies on \textit{DUO} dataset are conducted to validate the effectiveness and efficiency of each design. Source code will be available at \url{https://github.com/chenjie04/Dynamic-YOLO}.
